Hi everyone, welcome to today's demo.
My name is Katie Wong and I'm part of the
display Applications team for GMSL in the
Automotive in Cabin Experience group.
Today I'm going to be showing you how to
get video set up on a GMSL 2 link using
our HDMI serializer and our OLDID
serializer.
GMSL 2 is a packet based bi directional
architecture.
That means that in a display application
we're sending video data from our
serializer across to our deserializer and
then we're sending reverse channel data
on our deserializer through our GMSL 2
link to our serializer.
So let's take a closer look at the
hardware and see what we have going on.
So on the left hand side,
we have our HDMI input,
at the top left we have our 12 Volt
barrel Jack.
Right next to that we have our red on and
off switch for the EV kit.
And then right next to that we have
switch 3, which is a set of DIP switches.
So this configures the device address for
the device,
which today we'll be using 0X80 for the
serializer.
And we're also setting it for I to C mode
in coax.
And then right next to this DIP switch,
we have these 3 headers.
The first one here is setting our BDDIO
voltage of 3.3 volts.
And then right next to that,
we're configuring our EV kit for I2C mode.
And then here you'll see I have a micro
USB connected to talk to our Team C
microcontroller,
which we'll be able to use to send
commands across the Gmas L2 link to
configure our control registers.
Right next to that,
at the very right hand side of the board,
we have our Gmas L2 output on Phi A.
So this is going through our coax
connector,
through a coax cable and then onto our
deserializer.
So now focusing on our deserializer,
we have our coax input on Phi A on the
left hand side.
At the top here we have our 12 Volt
barrel Jack again,
and then right next to that we have our
red on and off switch again.
We have the same jumpers on the top here
for VDDDIO of 3.3 volts and also I2C.
Right next to that we have our DIP
switches again to set our configuration.
So today for our deserializer,
we'll be using 0X90I2C and coax mode On
the right hand side.
Here we have our GMSL OLDI adaptor,
so that is separate from our EV kit.
And then this is connected through a Sam
tech connector,
which is then connected to our OLDI
display panel.
So now that we have our equipment,
let's take a look at the EV kit data
sheets.
So if you don't have the EV Kit data
sheets,
you can find that on our product page.
You should already have the worksheet
downloaded,
so please go ahead and download that if
you have not already.
So for the first step of the worksheet,
check the configuration of the DIF switch,
Switch 3 on the serializer board and
indicate whether the switch is high or
low.
Also note the silk screen name for each
switch in the section shown.
Moving on to the deserializer board,
again check the configuration of the DIF
switch switch to and indicate whether the
switch is high or low.
Also note the silk screen name for each
switch in the section shown.
In my default setup,
the VDDIO header is set to 3.
3 volts on both boards.
That means the high is 3.
3 volts and low is 0 volts.
In this next section,
you will want to indicate whether you are
using I to C or coax mode and also the
device address.
These are all configured by the DIF
switches mentioned before.
Now that all of our hardware is
configured properly and we've had a good
look at the EV kit data sheet and device
data sheet,
let's power on our boards and see what we
see on the boards as we power them up.
So just turning that red switch at the
top to the on position,
you'll see that the Teen C light is
flashing five times.
So we do not want to activate any
commands at this point until we see a
solid red light.
We'll also see a blue LED for the Teen C
power,
a green LED to show that our GMSL 2 link
has locked,
And then we'll also see this red error
bar LED on our serializer that is due to
a difference in the default configuration
of our serializer device and the default
hardware that's on this board.
So later on in the GUI,
I'll show you how to remove this error
from the serializer because this is not
so relevant to our demo at the moment.
OK, Once you powered on these boards,
you'll also see the backlight on your
OLDI panel show up and there is no video
going through to this display at this
moment.
So now we're going to fire up the GUI.
If you do not already have the GUI,
please check out the product page to
download the GMSL GUI,
or you can find it on Sharefile.
So now we have our GMSL GUI up and
running.
You'll see that it has identified our two
parts here with the serializer on the
left hand side and the deserializer on
the right hand side.
You'll also see the device addresses
showing as 0X80 on the serializer and
0X90 on the deserializer.
Right under that on the 1st 2 tabs,
you'll also see the names of the OLDID
serializer and HDMI serializer.
Looking at these tabs you can see all of
the registers related to these tabs and
we will now look at the air bar light
that we took a look at before.
So in our GUI we are going to navigate 2
tools status and air bar status.
So once this page is loaded and the
registers have refreshed for all of our
error bars,
you'll see that these line fault
interrupt output enable is enabled by
that check box on the left hand side.
So this is what is causing our error bar
light to turn on and we do not have our
line fault registers installed on this EV
kit at this moment.
So once I uncheck this box and refresh
the error status,
you'll see that the red LED is now gone.
So taking a look at our serializer board,
the error bar light was here before and
now it is turned off.
So now we have an active GMSL 2 link.
So I'm going to show you on the GUI how
we can verify that this is an active
connection.
So taking a look at our serializer
register 00,
we have our device address at the left
here.
So we're going to do a simple read and on
the right hand side you'll see that we
are reading device address 80 and the
result is 80.
So that shows that we have our active
connection on our serializer,
which is great.
Next step,
we also want to check our deserializer.
So this is going to be going across our
link.
We're going to go to device register 00
again,
and we're going to read our device
address once more.
So just clicking read,
we'll see that on the right hand side
we're reading device address 90,
and the result is 90, which is perfect.
Now that we've verified our active
connection,
we can now go ahead and load our edit to
get our display output running.
So I'm going to go very quickly to my low
level commands and I'm going to clear my
history and I'm going to go to the top
left to look for my script file.
So here I'm going to click load CSV 16
bit register address,
and you'll see that I have this 90201920
by 1200 P 60 edit ready to go.
So I'm going to double click that.
And in my low level commands,
you'll be able to see all of the register
rights going through in real time.
So this takes a little bit of time.
So we're just going to wait.
All right,
so while we're waiting for our edit to
load, let's take a look at our worksheet.
So we know that our edit is at 1920 by
1200 P at 60 Hertz.
So let's do a rough calculation of our P
clock.
To do that,
you need your active width by your active
height.
We're going to use a rule of thumb
blanking ratio of about 1.2,
which is 20% plus.
And we're going to have our frame rate
value,
which we're all going to multiply
together to get our P clock in Hertz.
So once your edit is loaded,
you'll have noticed that my screen did
blank a black screen for a couple seconds.
And that means that our device has now
seen our EDID.
Looking at our OLDI display panel,
you'll also see that there's still no
video yet because this is not configured
yet for our video.
So now I'm going to show you some
register rights that we can do to get our
video output running.
So on our deserializer,
which is the second tab on the left,
we're going to search for register one CE.
We're going to go ahead and read that,
and we're going to configure our device
for this Oldi panel.
So I'm going to write the value 5 E and
now our deserializer is configured.
Next,
I'm going to go to our serializer tab and
I'm going to go to register 01.
Again,
I'm going to read this register and I'm
going to check on the box beside HDMI
auto start.
This has changed the hex value to a value
of C8.
I'm now going to click right register.
Looking at our OLDI display,
you'll now see that you'll have a replica
of my monitor on the screen.
So now that our edit is loaded,
we're going to check our HDMI timing to
see what the actual values of our timing
are.
So let's look at tools status and then
HDMI timing.
So clicking Calculate total values,
we'll be able to see what our HDMI
serializer is receiving from the HDMI
source.
So looking at your worksheet,
let's fill in these values and calculate
our new P clock.
All right,
using the same method from before,
we're going to calculate our P clock with
the active values that we saw.
All right,
I'm going to go ahead and close the HDMI
tool and we're going to check a couple
registers to see that we have active
video.
Obviously we have active video on the
Oldi display panel right now,
but if you were not seeing any video and
you wanted to see what was happening,
we have a couple registers you can check
on our serializer.
We can search registers bit fields for P
clock.
You'll see this first Register here has P
clock detect.
So if I click read,
we expect this value to be high.
There's also another P clock detect
register in pipe Y.
So if we click read on this,
you'll see that there is no active video
on pipe Y.
We have not configured any video to go
through pipe Y, so that's as expected.
Next, on our deserializer,
we can check our device for video lock.
So very quickly,
I'm going to scroll back to the top so
that it searches through all of our
registers.
I'm going to search vid_lock.
So now we're in a new register with video
lock and we're going to click read and
you'll see there that we have vid lock is
high,
which is as expected since we have video
going to our deserializer.
Taking a look at our worksheet,
you'll see that these registers can be
indicated as high or low.
So we can go ahead and fill that out.
So now that we have video running,
we can move on to our extra credit
section.
Great job in getting to the steps so far.
So the first step on this that we're
going to do is we're going to open up our
edit script.
So from my home screen,
I have my edit script ready to go.
I'm going to double click on that to open
the file.
All right,
to understand how to write a script for
our GMSL devices,
let's take a look at the convention for
typing our CSV files.
So in this first line, we have 0X80,
0X25F5, 0X00.
Taking a look at this that this means
that we're writing to device address 0X80.
We're writing to register 0X20F5 and
we're writing the value 0X00.
So taking a look at the register rights
that we did in the GUI beforehand,
let's go to our worksheet and fill out
the correct syntax for this.
All right,
so now that we understand the syntax for
writing a script for our devices,
let's go ahead and fill out those two
commands that we had previously.
So for our first line,
we're going to talk to device address
0X80,
we're going to talk to register 0X01,
and we're going to write the value 0 XC 8.
This configures the HDMI auto start on
this device.
Next we're going to enter the command for
our deserializer.
So this is 0X ninety 0X1CE0X5 5E.
All right,
so now we can go ahead and save this file.
So closing that,
I'm now going to power cycle my devices
on the bench.
Once again, you'll see your screen flash,
and you'll also notice that I have no
video coming out on my display again,
Now that we power cycle the devices,
we have to reconfigure them,
so I'm going to go ahead and power up my
GUI once more.
OK, now that we have our GUI fired up,
we're going to go to our low level
commands.
Let's clear this window so that we can
see the eeded running in real time.
And let's go ahead and load our script
that we saved off with this
Of code.
Double clicking on this,
let's see the eeded going.
All right,
now that we included these two new lines
to our script,
you can see that your display panel just
powered up automatically without us
having to do any extra register rights in
the GUI.
OK,
now we can move on to Extra Credit 2 for
this.
We're going to fire up the GUI one last
time.
Great, Now with our GUI fired up,
we're going to load our non modified edit
script from the very first step of this
lab one more time.
Now that our edit is loaded,
you can see that the script ran error
free with this green LED status and that
our screen blinked black one last time.
Going to our tools at the very top,
we're going to go to video config,
OLDI configuration.
We're going to choose dual OLDI.
We're going to enable OLDI 4th lane.
We're going to change OLDI format to VESA.
We're going to disable spread spectrum,
enable swap ports A&B,
and disable lane mapping for GMSL stream
ID 0.
Before we configure the deserializer,
let's save off the script so we can look
at it later.
Now that we have the script saved off,
we can configure our deserializer.
You'll see in the Command status window
at the bottom that it says Configuration
complete.
We can now close this GUI tool.
Now let's go again to tools at the top,
Video Config and HDMI configuration.
Taking a look at the configuration
parameters here,
we're going to keep HDMI enabled,
Disabled, checked.
We're going to turn off the two audio
check boxes because we are not using
audio in this demo.
For Edit table, we're going to choose No,
toggle, HPD, Editable load,
and this is all for Stream ID 0.
Again, we're going to click File,
and we're going to create our script once
again.
So now we'll name this file and click
File one more time and click Configure
Serializer.
You'll see in the Command status window
that it now says Configuration Complete.
We can now also close this tool.
So now that we've used the GUI tools to
configure our serializer and deserializer
and have our edit loaded,
you'll see output on your OLDI display
panel.
So let's open up those CSV scripts that
we created through the GUI tools and take
a look at what changed now that you've
located the scripts that you've found.
OK,
taking a look at our device data sheet,
you'll see that there is a Power on Reset
value.
Take a look and compare these values from
the script to the power on Reset values
in the data sheet.
Fill these out in your worksheet.
Are there any differences in these values?
Doing the same thing with our all DID
serializer script.
Let's compare these values that we are
writing to to the registers power on
reset values in the device data sheets.
Do you see any differences in these
values?
Now that we've compared those two scripts,
you'll see that the same register rights
that we did in the tools are the same as
extra credit number one and the display
demo.
So now we have working video output.
If you have any questions,
please feel free to reach out.